Inclusive and Participatory Interfaces for Photo Archives as New Research Opportunity


Authors
Ulrike Felsing, Max Frischknecht [0000-0001-8043-1895], Adrian Demleitner [0000-0001-9918-7300]


Keywords
Participation, inclusion,  individual photo-narratives, interface design


Abstract
The proposal discusses the development of a participatory interface for digital photo archives from a conceptual, technological and design perspective.


Photographic archives have been steadily digitizing their materials. A key argument that is brought up in favor of digitization is the hope for an increased level of access. However, the first years of experience with digital archives have also shown that digital availability alone does not automatically lead to broader use of photographic collections (Brunner 2017). For a consistently dialogic orientation of the archives, it is becoming increasingly important to involve the users. This approach is being followed by our research team using the example of the photo archive of the Swiss Society for Folklore Studies[1]  through the development of interface tools that enable for example the creation of individual collections and visual narratives.


Cultural heritage collections such as photographic archives, implicitly refer to the power relations that determine what has been deemed worthy of archiving or not (Horstmann & Kopp 2010). Participation can play an important role in that it can reduce the “exclusive decision-making power” (Brunner 2017, 7) of the archives in favor of democratization. It can enable other members of society, whose voice in the archives traditionally had little impact, to contribute and include their views and practices. Although technological developments have ensured that more and more people are involved in the creation of visual narratives, these practices are rarely included in archives. Through increased participation digital archives can facilitate and document a social discourse surrounding photographic practice.


Our research centers around the following questions: 1) How can a visual interface support participation in archival tasks? 2) How can participants change the established archive-based narratives and create more subjective approaches to the archive? 3) How do archival institutions benefit from participation, and what do users get out of it?


We will present and discuss aspects of content, possible design solutions  as well as the underlying technology of a participatory interface that allows users to create their individual collections and narratives within the photo archive. These can be created from archival images, personal image uploads or images from other online collections through the implementation of international standards for the digital exchange of images and archival material. The new collections can be enhanced by related material, collaboratively edited by communities of users and shared to facilitate discussions and increase participation further. Through the proposed interface solution, participants can engage with their cultural identity and history, share their knowledge with other users, and challenge archive-based narratives. In return, the archive benefits from new perspectives on the collection, and the contextual knowledge and metadata of the collection will be improved.


Technologically, the interface operates on top of open-source practices such as accessible documentation, application program interfaces (APIs), and IIIF which aids in regulating the digital exchange of images. The proposed interface and software strive to integrate itself with the growing network of cultural heritage institutions that actively share their archival material and ensure long-term sustainability regarding their digital archives.


This proposal is produced as part of the interdisciplinary work on the SNSF research project "Participatory Knowledge Practices in Analogue and Digital Image Archives" (PIA) with the participation of the Seminar for Cultural Studies and European Ethnology (University of Basel), Institute of Design Research (Bern Academy of the Arts), Digital Humanities Lab (University of Basel) and Department of Mathematics and Computer Science (University of Basel). The project is collectively led by Walter Leimgruber (University of Basel), Peter Fornaro (University of Basel) and Ulrike Felsing (Bern Academy of the Arts).


Bibliography


Brunner, F. (2017). Überlieferungsbildung 2.0: Eine Untersuchung zum Mehrwert von Partizipation Dritter in staatlichen Archiven (W. Semar, Ed.). Schweizerisches Institut für Informationswissenschaft (SII). Fachhochschule Graubünden. https://www.fhgr.ch/fileadmin/fhgr/angewandte_zukunftstechnologien/SII/churer_schriften/sii-churer_schriften_89-Ueberlieferungsbildung_2_0.pdf
Horstmann, A., & Kopp, V. (Eds.). (2010). Einleitung. In Archiv—Macht—Wissen: Organisation und Konstruktion von Wissen und Wirklichkeiten in Archiven (pp. 9–22). Campus.
Biographies
Dr. (phil.) Ulrike Felsing (ulrike.felsing@hkb.bfh.ch)  is a design researcher and lecturer at the Bern University of the Arts. From 2021–2025, she codirects the Sinergia research project: Participatory Knowledge Practices in Analog and Digital Image Archives, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) together with Prof. Dr. W. Leimgruber and Dr. P. Fornaro, University of Basel. Ulrike led the project on the digital transformation of the Swiss National Archives at the HKB which was funded by the Bern University of Applied Sciences BFH (2018.) She conducted the research project “The Exploration of Design Methods in the Field of Transcultural Visual Communication” in collaboration with Dr. R. Baur, which was funded by the SNSF (2010–2015). In 2018, she completed her PhD thesis on “Reflexive Kataloge: Ein Medium der Übersetzung als Ausstellung, Film und Hypertext.” (Bielefeld: Transcript. Currently in Print). Ulrike studied visual communication at the Academy of Visual Arts Leipzig, Germany. http://ulrikefelsing.ch.
Max Frischknecht (max.frischknecht@hkb.bhf.ch) is a design researcher, programmer, and graphic designer. Currently, he is a Ph.D. student in Digital Humanities at the University of Bern and part of the Sinergia research project Participatory Knowledge Practices in Analog and Digital Image Archives, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) from 2021–2025. Max holds an MA in Design from the Bern University of the Arts HKB, where he conducted a research project on the role played by personal data in political communication in Switzerland’s social networks. He studied visual communication at the Academy of Art and Design FHNW in Basel. https://maxfrischknecht.ch/


Adrian Demleitner (adrian.demleitner@unibas.ch) holds a MA in design research from the Bern University of the Arts HKB. He is lead engineer and scientific software developer for the technical domain within the Sinergia research project Participatory Knowledge Practices in Analog and Digital Image Archive. His research focus hovers around user experience design as well as aspects of politics and sustainability in archival practices. https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9918-7300 
________________


Finales Paper/Präsentation
Figma File: https://www.figma.com/file/nvd9iroQjH0Q92ZplBhWyR/Photo-Archives-VIII-Presentation
Inhalt (25 min)
* Context of our Research / Archives & Participation (Max), 3 min
* Self-Representation through Photographs (Ulrike), 
* Photographs & Participatory Research (Ulrike), 7 in total
* Model of Participation (Max),
* User Research & Interface Design (Max), 7 in total
* Infrastructures & Interface Development (Adrian), 6 - 7 min
Teil 1 (Max)
Einleitung / Fragestellungen


* Adrian: Infrastructures, interfaces. How are we implementing participatory interfaces for humans and machines? How are we enabling participation and self-organizing through APIs?
* Ulrike will talk about
   * Society's self-representation through photographs
   * The role of photographs in the conduction of participatory research
* Max will talk about
   * The context of our research
   * Our Perception towards archives and the role of participation


Context of the Project[a][b]


The synergia project “Participatory Knowledge Practices in Analog and Digital Image Archives,” or short PIA, is funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF) over a four-year period and brings together an interdisciplinary team of researchers from the Department of Cultural Studies and European Ethnology at the University of Basel, the Digital Humanities at the Universities of Basel and Bern, as well as the Institute for Design Research at the University of Applied Sciences in Bern.


The common goal of the project is to design a visual interface that makes it easy to annotate, contextualize and link images with their meta-information, to deliberately encourage the participatory use of archives. For this purpose the project works with three image collections provided by the Swiss Society for Folklore Studies SSFS (Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Volkskunde SGV) that resemble an important part of the cultural memory of Switzerland.


Archives & Participation


As a first step, we would like to briefly discuss our perspective on digital cultural heritage archives and how they relate to the concept of participation.


Referring to Horstmann and Kopp (2010), we see archives as institutions that store knowledge which could enable us to reconstruct today’s social and material reality in the future. However, this reconstruction is only possible if one pays attention to the gaps in the archive and recognizes the archive’s perforated essence. These gaps refer by implication to the power relations that decided what was considered worthy of archiving and what not.
Here, participation can play an important role in that it can reduce or democratize the “sole decision-making power of the archives in the formation of cultural heritage” (Brunner 2017, 7). We consider this to be of relevance since the Brunner Collection discussed or the Atlas of Swiss Folklore show a strongly rural and traditional image of Switzerland. Certain communities such as migrant workers or the urban population are only represented marginally or not at all.


The participatory aspect is for digital archive especially relevant since the emergence of Web 2.0 made digital communication genuinely participatory and self-organized. New dialogical approaches are becoming possible – and even necessary, as the growth of processual knowledge requires forms of collaborative production, storage, and communication. All this extends the archive as a site of conversation and increasingly makes it a site of exchange and digital participatory research.


Teil 2 (Ulrike)
I will talk about two aspects:
1. The exploration of society's self-representation through photographs (in which I will also present the 3 collection used for this issue).
2. The role of photographs in the conduction of participatory research.


The self-description of society through photographs
The photo archive of the Swiss Society for Folklore Studies SSFS’s (Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Volkskunde SGV Basel) focuses on the construction of the traditions, lifestyles, and everyday practices of Swiss people, and thus in general on their cultural heritage and identity. This provides a field of research in which the interconnection between science and society is particularly intensive.
My own main research focus is on the self-representation of Swiss society through photographs from the 1930s to 1950s.
 
The entire research project addresses three different types of collections: a scientific collection, a public collection, and a private, family collection. The general goal is to analyze the creation, storage, and communication of knowledge in analog and digital archives. All three collections will be used to develop the participatory visual interface.
 
1)        The Ernst Brunner collection (Sammlung Ernst Brunner)
2)         The Kreis family collection (Sammlung Familie Kreis)
3)        The Atlas of Swiss Folklore (Atlas der Schweizerischen Volkskunde)
 
1. The Ernst Brunner collection consists of 48,000 negatives and 20,000 prints.
From 1936 to 1979, Brunner, a professional photographer, published numerous artistic and documentary photographs on a wide variety of folkloric subjects, primarily in popular magazines e.g. “Swiss Home” („Schweizer Heim“) and “Swiss Family” („Schweizer Familie“).
He photographed mainly in rural areas, but motifs from the urban environment can also be found in his work. The collection shows how a photographer interested in folklore collaborated with popular media, providing them with material that observed and documented everyday life in Switzerland. At the same time, he made his own contribution to the culture he documented.
 
2. The Kreis Family collection is a private collection that connects many strands of the cultural imagination. It is a typical example of urban bourgeois culture – the private estate of a Basel family of doctors and printers. The collection, with material dating from 1860 to 1970, includes 16,000 photographic objects. Photo albums, such as those in this collection, were a semi-public form of self-expression in such middle-class families, to be found on the living room table, for example.
 
3. The collection of the Atlas of Swiss Folklore was created from 1950 to 1995 on behalf of the SGV as part of a long-term scientific project. By mapping cultural patterns, the atlas constructs a comprehensive picture of Switzerland based on the links between culture and geography. The contents of the atlas were compiled by both academic professionals and non-academics, called “laymen” in the language of the time. The goal of this extensive survey was to document “Swiss folk culture” in the 1930s and 1940s through questions on a wide range of topics such as everyday behavior, local laws, festivals and celebrations, work and trade, and many other topics.
 
In the context of our research project, photos and maps are not only understood as visual documentations, but will be analyzed with regard to the attributions (“Zuschreibungen”) that are made with them.
The focus here is on the question of what is asserted in the photographs as true and typical of Swiss culture.
 
In the 1930s, in view of the threat posed by National Socialism and its visual propaganda,
the question of truth gains importance: Which images and ideas did the “Spiritual national defence” (Geistige Landesverteidigung) refer to, and which images can be attributed to it from today's perspective?
 
 
The role of photographs in the realization of participatory research
Photographs are not only documents of a society's self-description, they also play a mediating role in the use of our new research platform by enabling researching citizens to contribute.
 
Why are photographs particularly suitable for collaboration with the public?
To what extent can photographs fulfill a mediating role between scholarly researchers and researching citizens?
 
Photographs provide important clues to cultural practices, as they can convey tacit knowledge (Polanyi 1966). In contrast to a purely verbal interview, this implicit, non-verbalized knowledge can be recorded observationally by means of photographs or recalled in a conversation (photo elicitation). This is because hints of the implicit knowledge remain “stored” in the photographs.


For researchers, photographs are therefore often more “productive” in conversation than, for example, historical texts, because they are evocative and offer many more points of contact with cultural practices. They are not only a "bridge" to the past, but also between people with different levels of knowledge. They are often more intuitive and graspable at a glance than written documents.
 
Tacit knowledge is directly linked to actions and photographs can give voice to them. In this context, they can simultaneously express many different aspects of the action and the environment in which it occurs, without automatically hierarchizing them.
 
Thus, a single photograph simultaneously shows the most diverse aspects of hay transport: the actions (usually the dried grass is wrapped in nets or sheets, the huge bales are heaved onto the shoulder and transported down the steep hillsides).
At the same time, the photo shows the type of protective clothing (such as shirt with hood), the tools used (ropes, clothes, nets, baskets, ox carts or sledges) and the place of work (the mountains, the mountain pasture, the village, the stable).
The series also express different steps of the work (such as the laying out of the transport net and the actual transport) or regional characteristics (such as the shape of the haystacks). 
 
In photographs, intangible cultural practices can be preserved in this way.
At the same time, the historical images are further enhanced by the diverse narratives and contexts that we hope to gather through the participatory interface. 


For this purpose, we use various tools, including "Call for images" and the "individual image collections" that Adrian will show you later.




Teil 3 (Max)
Model of Participation


Participation in a research process breaks up hierarchical relationships in favor of cooperative partnership. Participatory research is defined by Bergold (2013, 2) as the “attempt to initiate and shape a process of knowledge in which, in principle, all persons and groups are involved as active decision-makers who are affected by the respective topic and the question.” Bergold  argues further that for participation to function, all participants must acknowledge that each participant brings a valid perspective.


Participation can take place on multiple levels which are visualized in the step model of Wright et al. (2010) (Fig. 1). It is important to highlight that each of the individual levels, except probably the first two, can play a valuable role in a participatory process. For example, we apply levels 3–5 during the conceptualization and development of the interface in the form of interviews and workshops with potential users. Based on this exchange we develop a functioning prototype that aims at enabling users to participate at higher levels of participation (levels 6-9), for example by providing them with functionalities to work with archive materials independently. This prototype is then again validated in collaboration with the users (levels 3–5).
[ Fig. 1: Step model of participation according to Wright et al. (2010) ]
Based on this definition of participation, we would like to argue that knowledge practices in digital archives must adapt to an ideal of knowledge that is no longer embodied in fixed results formulated by an authority but rather in a more open process involving negotiation and diversity of voices. As a result, the production of knowledge finds itself confronted with a variety of technological and communicative challenges for example the storage, access management and verification of user generated data.
In the next step, we would like to discuss our approach to including users in the first phase of interface conceptualization.
User Research & Interface Design
As presented earlier, our project develops a participatory image archive on the example of the collections Brunner and Kreis as well as the Atlas of Swiss Folklore. Therefore, we are especially interested in how users interact and work with these collections. 
For our research on user requirements we apply a combination of Activity Centered (Norman 2005) and Goal Directed (Cooper et al. 2007) design methods. The combination of these methods allows us to understand user behavior at different levels, ranging from motivation to specific tasks, and how they relate to each other. In summary, we aim at understanding the following parameters of user behavior:
1. Goals and Motivations define why people perform activities; they help us to understand what the expectations and aspirations of our users are.
2. Activities are coordinated sets of tasks that lead to a specific outcome and help users to achieve subgoals. For example, creating a personal sub-collection of images is an activity that consists of multiple individual tasks.
3. Tasks are the smallest unit and define the individual steps that users must take to conclude an activity, for example selecting images and adding a description or keywords to a sub-collection.
To define goals, activities, and tasks we first conduct semi-structured interviews with users to understand their aspirations to work with our digital archive interface. Based on these conversations we formulate goals, activities, and tasks as a hypothesis. For this, we create a user-journey template that translates the findings from the interview into a behavioral sequence (Fig. 2). In a workshop setting, the user journey will be discussed and filled out collaboratively with the user. (Fig. 3 and Fig. 4).
[Fig 2: The user-journey differentiates activities in columns. Each column consists of different parts that aim at understanding tasks (“Teilschritte”), motivation (“Gains & Motivation”), potential problems (“Pains”), interface parts necessary to accomplish these tasks (“Interface-Bereiche”) as well as steps which are conducted outside of the platform (“Externe Arbeitsschritte”).] 
[Fig: 3: The latest workshop at the University of Applied Sciences where we filled out the user-journey in collaboration with the user.]
[Fig: 4: The finished user-journey] 


This particular collaboration with the user helped us to understand the following aspects and challenges that will further inform the development of our interface:


1. The user works with a relatively large image corpora of 300 images that portrait a certain region in the Swiss Alps. It's important that the interface provides him with appropriate tools to explore the photographs from the three image collections as well as user-uploads. This includes for example the ability to group and organize images as well as visualize them in different contexts, for example, through a timeline or a map. These contexts in turn play a role at different stages of the research, from the preliminary exploration of the corpora to the final mediation of results.
2. Our digital archive interface is one of many tools in the research process of this user. He for example plans to conduct interviews based on photo-elicitation and to transcode the recordings afterwards with professional software. This highlights the importance of import and export functionalities that allow transferring images and texts into as well as out of the platform in various standardized formats like txt, pdf, jpg, csv or json. Accordingly, it makes sense to use open source technologies and implement standards of interoperability. Additionally, it poses the question of the limits of the platform: For which aspects of the process will our interface provide solutions and for which are already good tools available to users?[c]


Among these, many other issues came up during the workshop. For example the problem of image rights, the topic of giving users control over which aspects of their work become public, as well as how users can approach other users for collaboration.


At the moment we are working on 15 thematically different scenarios with varying levels of complexity, tackling such diverse topics as machine-learning-based similarity search for exploration, visualization of object biographies, or usage of the online archive during a hackathon. Through this variety of scenarios we try to understand the requirements of different potential target groups like professional researchers of various fields, laypersons, small archives or creatives.


On the one hand, these scenarios are developed in collaboration with active users of the archive, like in the presented example, on the other hand, scenarios are developed with members within the research group, for example, doctoral students, who also use the archive for their dissertation projects.
Teil 4 (Adrian)
Before delving into the technical interfaces, we would like to present and walk through two concrete processes of working with the archive and its material. With reference to the model of participation introduced earlier, they can be located around the level of partial decision-making power.


The first process is the curation of individual collections, which form an integral aspect of our interface and are directly accessible at most times. With regards to the typology of participation (Norman 2005), creating a collection is usually a task within a larger activity. A user is rarely creating a collection just for the sake of it, but mostly with the intent of contextualizing it. Since we hardly can anticipate the user’s exact needs, we are not enforcing a specific workflow. Instead, we offer a multitude of different entry points into the archive and its collections. This is an attempt to create a generous interface (Whitelaw, 2012), an interface that does not need highly specialized skills, but instead creates access on many levels of user experience. So far we implemented full-text search, search through the display of metadata lists, search on a map or in a date range, and last but not least similarity search through the upload of an image.


The creation and contextualization of collections will add further access and explorability to the archive. The new digital objects that are created through contextualizing image material on a map, in notes, a timeline, and so forth are creating new collective entry points through an individual’s work. Photographic material can lack certain metadata, such as the date and location of creation. This lack of information reduces discoverability. When such photos are nonetheless finding their way into a collection and contexts through individual participation the entirety of the user base can profit from this.


A specialized context that we’re implementing is the call, which resides on a more specific aspect of participation. This process is enabling researchers to engage a crowd. There is again a plurality of expressions of what a call might include. Creating a call is a task in the activity of asking the crowd for help in a research process. This research might be the enhancement of metadata of certain images in the archive, the method of photo-elicitation, or letting the crowd upload photos as a reaction to a call.


From the perspective of the archive, we’re again interested in the enhancement of our archival material. The process of starting a call should not be seen as a separate chain of research tools, but as a method of engaging researchers and users alike with the archive.


In the following, we would love to go briefly into a technical aspect of our archive, namely application programming interfaces (APIs). Access to these is interwoven with the user interface. APIs are entry points to the archive’s material that are designed to be read by software, which calls for an infrastructural perspective.


Regarding the consumption of archival material, the range of expertise in accessing the archive can range from people interested in watching some images on a mobile device to researchers who want to quantitatively analyze several thousand landscape photos on their content. We are attempting to create and maintain access for the former through the implementation of various user interfaces and experience processes. The latter, specialized access, we solve through the creation of open interfaces that can be read through specialized software or programming. 


These APIs, geared towards the specialized professional community, can be located on the level of self-organization in the participatory model. Although certain skills and knowledge are necessary to access these entry points, we designed them with open data access in mind. Open source and its code is its own kind of epistemology (Di Cosmo & Zacchiroli, 2017) and by respecting this we intend to freely share and stabilize (Tischberger, 2021) the knowledge contained within a digital archive as well as its underlying infrastructures. Even though opening up to participative communities, there is also the potential of archives being destabilized.


By creating and giving free access to archival material, sharing is facilitated and the translation of the material into other research software or archival platforms becomes easier. This enables the constitution of archival diversification, which is a pluriversal approach (Escobar, 2018), creating the potential for resilient archives.


To further discoverability and exploration of this level of participation, our APIs are inter-linked. Without going into the technical details, we implemented an IIIF API for the consumption of image material, a JSON API that is specialized in metadata in structured text, and is on our way to a Linked Art API. Every one of these APIs expresses different qualities and foci of the material of the archive. Further, each of these contains references to each other as well as the user interface that can be accessed through a web browser. Interlinking access points is an important process of enhancing discoverability.


Implementing these APIs into our archive is also a way of communicating certain values about sharing and open data practices. It signals that we want to take part in an emerging network of cultural heritage institutions that want to overcome the digital hurdles of closed source systems. It is another vision of sharing and caring for archival material. 


Conclusion
For us, interoperability and participation do not only mean using the latest standard or innovating on interfaces by implementing the newest technology stack. We attempt to realize our approach through participative design, from early on, and realizing a plurality of ways to get materials and data into and out of the digital archival system. In order to build participative systems, we need to enable ways of exchange and collaboration that we can't anticipate.


So what comes next? We are a project that is situated within an interdisciplinary team and oscillates between theory and practice. That makes processes slow at times since we need to develop shared vocabularies as well as translate findings from theory into practice and vice versa. On the other hand, our work produces substantial prototypes we can test, discuss and confront our participants with. We are dependent on feedback from many actants. We hence invite you to have a look at our work so far and talk with us about your experiences. We are looking forward to your questions, remarks, critique, and thoughts.


Bibliography[d][e][f][g][h][i][j][k][l][m]


Bergold, J. (2013, May 10). Partizipative Forschung und Forschungsstrategien. ENewsletter Wegweiser Bürgergesellschaft. https://www.buergergesellschaft.de/fileadmin/pdf/gastbeitrag_bergold_130510.pdf


Brunner, F. (2017). Überlieferungsbildung 2.0: Eine Untersuchung zum Mehrwert von Partizipation Dritter in staatlichen Archiven (W. Semar, Ed.). Schweizerisches Institut für Informationswissenschaft (SII). Fachhochschule Graubünden.


Cooper, A., Reimann, R., Cronin, D., & Cooper, A. (2007). About face 3: The essentials of interaction design ([3rd ed.], Completely rev. & updated). Wiley Pub.


Di Cosmo, R., & Zacchiroli, S. (2017). Software Heritage: Why and How to Preserve Software Source Code. IPRES 2017 - 14th International Conference on Digital Preservation, 1–10. https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01590958


Escobar, A. (2018). Designs for the pluriverse: Radical interdependence, autonomy, and the making of worlds. Duke University Press.


Horstmann, A., & Kopp, V. (Eds.). (2010). Einleitung. In Archiv—Macht—Wissen: Organisation und Konstruktion von Wissen und Wirklichkeiten in Archiven (pp. 9–22). Campus.


Norman, D. A. (2005). Human-centered design considered harmful. Interactions, 12(4), 14–19. https://doi.org/10.1145/1070960.1070976


Tischberger, R. (2021). Wie wir coden wollen. Zum strategischen Umgang mit der Ressource Wissen in der Softwarearbeit. Hamburger Journal für Kulturanthropologie (HJK), 13, 139–149. http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:gbv:18-8-17291


Wright, M., Block, M., & Unger, H. (2010). Partizipation der Zielgruppe in der Gesundheitsförderung und Prävention. In M. Wright (Ed.), Partizipative Qualitätsentwicklung in der Prävention und Gesundheitsförderung (pp. 35–52). Huber.


Whitelaw, M. (2012). Towards generous interfaces for archival collections. International Council on Archives Congress. A Climate of Change, Brisbane, Australia. http://ica2012.ica.org/files/pdf/Full%20papers%20upload/ica12Final00423.pdf














Ulrike Stichpunkte für die visuelle Präsentation


The self-description of society through photographs
* Swiss Society for Folklore Studies (Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Volkskunde SGV Basel) 
* focuses on the construction of the traditions, lifestyles, and everyday practices of Swiss people
* self-representation of Swiss society through photographs (1930s–1950s)


* a scientific collection, a public collection, and a private collection
* analyze the creation, storage, and communication of knowledge in analog and digital archives


1. The Ernst Brunner collection (Sammlung Ernst Brunner) Diss. F. Lüthi
2. The Kreis family collection (Sammlung Familie Kreis) Diss. M. Cornut
3. The Atlas of Swiss Folklore (Atlas der Schweizerischen Volkskunde) Diss. B. Huber


The Ernst Brunner collection (1936–1979) 
* 48,000 negatives and 20,000 prints
* Brunner published numerous artistic and documentary photographs on a wide variety of folkloric subjects
* how a photographer interested in folklore collaborated with popular media
* material that observed and documented everyday life in Switzerland


The Kreis family collection (1860–1970)
* a private collection that connects many strands of the cultural imagination
* typical example of urban bourgeois culture – the private estate of a Basel family of doctors and printers
* It includes 16,000 photographic objects
* Photo albums were a semi-public form of self-expression in such middle-class families


The Atlas of Swiss Folklore (1950–1995) 
* created from 1950 to 1995 on behalf of the Swiss Society for Folklore Studies as part of a long-term scientific project
* the atlas constructs a comprehensive picture of Switzerland based on the links between culture and geography
* were compiled by both academic professionals and non-academics, called “laymen” in the language of the time
* document “Swiss folk culture” in the 1930s and 1940s 
* through questions on a wide range of topics such as everyday behavior, local laws, festivals and celebrations, work and trade




* Photos and maps are not only understood as visual documentations, but are also analyzed with regard to the attributions associated with them
* what is asserted in the photographs as true and typical of Swiss culture
* In the 1930s, in view of the threat posed by National Socialism and its visual propaganda, the question of truth gains importance:
Which images did the “Spiritual national defence” (Geistige Landesverteidigung) refer to, and which images can be attributed to it from today‘s perspective?


The role of photographs in the realization of participatory research
* they also play a mediating role in the use of our new research platform by enabling researching citizens to contribute


* To what extent can photographs fulfill a mediating role between scholarly researchers and researching citizens?


* provide important clues to cultural practices, as they can convey tacit knowledge (Polanyi 1966)
* Tacit knowledge is directly linked to actions and photographs can give voice to them.
* In contrast to a purely verbal interview, this implicit, non-verbalized knowledge can be recorded observationally by means of photographs or recalled in a conversation (photo elicitation).
* they are evocative and offer many more points of contact with cultural practices
* a "bridge" between people with different levels of knowledge. 
* often more intuitive and graspable at a glance than written documents


* simultaneously express many different aspects of the action and the environment in which it occurs, without automatically hierarchizing them
* Bitte eine Folie mit dem Bild “Wildheuen auf der Glattalp” SGV_12N_36342


* In photographs, intangible cultural practices can be preserved in this way.
* the historical images are further enhanced by the diverse narratives and contexts that we hope to gather through the participatory interface
* we use various tools, including "Calls for images" and the "individual image collections"




________________
[1] The photo archive of the Swiss Society for Folklore Studies SSFS (Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Volkskunde SGV), Collection Ernst Brunner 
[a]Fragen der Konferenz auch aufnehmen
[b]Do we need to talk about our interdisciplinary approach (talking across disciplines)?
[c]Besser "ein offenes System", als "eines unter vielen"
[d]@ulrike.felsing@sfgz.ch, @adrian.cecil.demleitner@gmail.com


Bitte ergänzen für Schluss-Folie, danke!
[e]Wollen wir die Referenzen nicht auf Englisch halten?
[f]Doch du hast Recht. einige meiner Referenzen sind aber effektiv nur auf Deutsch erschienen, ich denke dann sollte man nicht Title etc. übersetzen, oder?
[g]Ehrlich gesagt finde ich es sehr unüblich für einen Vortrag die Referenzen aufzuführen
[h]Würdest du sie weglassen?
[i]ja, überall
[j]@djtaiken@gmail.com Endschuldige, ich habe nachgelsen, man muss zitieren
[k]ich wurde mal kritisiert, wegen zu ausführlichen Zitaten auf der Folie, daher mache ich nun nur Halbsätze, Deine Referenz war sehr klein gesetzt, ich hatte das Gefühl dass das in der Kürze eh niemand liesst
[l]@djtaiken@gmail.com darf ich Dich noch fragen wie wir das mit Figma lösen? Ich habe gestern noch eine Mail geschrieben
[m]Ich würde vorschlagen das wir die Slides zusammen durchgehen und ich für dich bei Bedarf neue erstelle.